{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto






{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Panarchy: ripples of a boundary concept\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  {\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Juan Rocha{\super 1,2,3}, Linda Luvuno{\super 4}, Jesse Rieb{\super 5}, Erin Crockett{\super 6}, Katja Malmborg{\super 1}, Michael Schoon{\super 7}, Garry Peterson{\super 1}\line \line {\super 1}Stockholm Resilience Centre, Stockholm University, Kr\u228?ftriket 2B, 10691 Stockholm\line {\super 2}Future Earth, The Swedish Royal Academy of Sciences, Lilla Frescativ\u228?gen 4A, 104 05 Stockholm\line {\super 3}South American Institute for Resilience and Sustainability Studies, Maldonado, Uruguay\line {\super 4}Center for Complex Systems in Transition, Stellenbosch University, South Africa\line {\super 5}Department of Geography, McGill University, 805 rue Sherbrooke ouest, Montr\u233?al (Qu\u233?bec) H3A 0B9, Canada\line {\super 6}Department of Natural Resource Sciences, McGill University, 21111 Lakeshore Road,\line Sainte-11 Anne-de-Bellevue, QC, H9X 3V9, Canada\line {\super 7}School of Sustainability, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona, USA\par}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Introduction\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Almost two decades ago, the edited book \u8220"Panarchy: Understanding Transformations in Human and Natural Systems\u8221" (Gunderson and Holling 2002), presented a synthetic perspective of how a group of social-ecological researchers associated with the Resilience Alliance understood change in social-ecological systems. The concept of Panarchy was a key focus of this influential book. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the Resilience Alliance was a productive, innovative, and highly collaborative group of interdisciplinary scientists that focused on addressing social-ecological problems. They did this by combining insights from the social and natural sciences, arts, and humanities, as well as by bridging theory and practice (Parker and Hackett 2012).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Panarchy concept builds on Holling\u8217's adaptive cycle (Holling 1986) by extending the idea across spatial and temporal scales. It remains a boundary object that has inspired research topics, enabled collaborations and nurtured new scientific frameworks. The ideas put forward have been applied in field studies, archaeology, mathematical models, participatory work, and scenario development. Panarchy has inspired resilience assessments and guided decision making. In this article we pay tribute to the book by studying how the concepts and metaphors proposed have been further developed in the academic literature. We also document criticism of the concepts and identify key research frontiers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Panarchy proposes that it is useful to conceptualize systems in terms of interacting adaptive cycles. The adaptive cycle was an idea first proposed by Holling based upon his experience working and studying managed ecosystems (Holling 1986). It was meant to be a conceptual tool that focused attention on processes of destruction and reorganization, which had been neglected in comparison to those of growth and conservation. Considering these processes provides a more complex way to understand system dynamics.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An adaptive cycle alternates between long periods of system aggregation, connection, and accumulation, and shorter periods of disruption and reorganization. The adaptive cycle exhibits four phases arranged into two major loops (Fig. ). The phases are exploitation ({\i r}), conservation ({\i K}), release ({\i \u937?}), and reorganization ({\i \u945?}), the latter characterized by events of creative destruction (Fig. ). The first loop, often referred to as the front-loop, from {\i r} to {\i K}, is the slow, incremental phase of growth and accumulation. The second loop, referred to as the back-loop, from {\i \u937?} to {\i \u945?}, is the rapid phase of reorganization leading to renewal. A system going into the back-loop can either remain in a similar form, or may transition to a new type of system with new boundaries and key components (Holling et al. 2002). Resilience researchers proposed that tensions between demands for organization and efficiency versus demands for novelty and diversity drive adaptive cycle type dynamics in many different types of complex systems (Holling et al. 2002).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Panarchy is not a theory of what it is, but a metaphor of what might be (Gunderson and Holling 2002). It is not a predictive tool, but aims to understand adaptive change. The adaptive cycle is hypothesized to exist within a three-dimensional space defined by three properties: potential, connectivity, and resilience (Gunderson and Holling 2002). Potential refers to the capital available to the system, for example nutrients and carbon captured by a forest, or human capital - skills and knowledge accumulated to run the economy. Connectivity is a proxy of the structure of the system; it is the network of interactions and strength between its elements. Resilience is the capacity of any system to absorb disturbance and reorganize while undergoing change so as to retain essentially the same identity, as determined by its function, structure, and feedbacks (Folke 2016).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Panarchy posits that systems are organized in nested hierarchies across space and time, where each level of the hierarchy is a subsystem that can be in a different phase of the adaptive cycle. These phases are inspired by mathematical models used in economics and ecology, but broadly describe patterns of growth, collapse, and recovery that are common to populations, ecological communities, markets, or political organizations. While each subsystem in the hierarchy can be at a different phase of the adaptive cycle, these subsystems can influence each other through cross-scale interactions called {\i \u8220"revolt\u8221"} and {\i \u8220"remember\u8221"} (Gunderson and Holling 2002).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The three-dimensional space has corners with attractors that can cause the adaptive cycle to stagnate: poverty and rigidity traps (Gunderson and Holling 2002). Poverty traps are described in panarchy as maladaptive states where potential, connectivity and resilience are low. Poverty traps are a series of feedback mechanisms that reinforce impoverished states (Allison and Hobbs 2004, Bowles et al. 2006, Maru et al. 2012), limiting the system\u8217's capacity to innovate and increase potential. The opposite corner, where potential, connectivity and resilience are high, is another maladaptive space called a rigidity trap. In that corner there is little space for experimentation and innovation. Examples include systems where ecological resilience has been extensively replaced by artificial processes to maintain the system such as levees, flood barriers, or chemical control of pests (Holling and Meffe 1996).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Panarchy offers a rich conceptual framework for understanding environmental problems. While inspired by several mathematical constructs (e.g.\u160?cycles, traps, scaling laws), it is general enough to invite scholars from multiple disciplinary backgrounds, ontologies and epistemologies, to collaborate around research questions and applied problems. As such, it is useful as a boundary object and can be used empirically or metaphorically. The book itself presents a series of case studies where geographers, economists, political scientists, and ecologists have demonstrated the utility of the framework to their area of research. However, the extent to which these concepts have gained empirical support beyond the metaphor, or how they have evolved over time, remain open questions. For example, the adaptive cycle is a useful metaphor to look back at history and organize events and periods around phases, but it remains challenging to identify the phase of a system in real time, or to use panarchy to project future trajectories.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Here we review the academic literature of the last two decades to trace how the ideas proposed in Panarchy have evolved, to what type of problems they have been applied and found useful, and finally, what key research frontiers remain.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Methods\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To answer these questions we combined an automated literature review based on topic modeling (Griffiths and Steyvers 2004, Blei 2012) with human-coded document analysis (Bryman 2008).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Data}: We used the Web of Science, Scopus, and GoogleScholar to survey academic literature that has used or referenced works that trace back to Panarchy (Gunderson and Holling 2002). We extracted complete records from the Scopus database that matched the search for {\i \u8220"panarchy OR adaptive cycle\u8221"} (N = 595), or the search {\i \u8220"(panarchy OR adaptive cycle) AND resilience\u8221"} (N = 278). The data was combined with all papers (N = 1923) that cited the inaugural paper that introduced the book to the academic community (Holling 2001). Records with missing abstracts were dropped (N = 191), and records with missing year were set to 2020 given that they are accepted manuscripts with digital object identifier (doi) scheduled to be published later in 2020 or 2021.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To prepare the data for topic modeling, we constructed a document term matrix with documents in rows and words in columns. Here our unit of analysis for the document are the abstracts retrieved, and the matrix contains the count of the number of occurrences of each word per abstract. We removed stop words (e.g.\u160?\u8220"the,\u8221" \u8220"a\u8221") and digits from the matrix, as well as a list of words that were over represented in our data and are common in the scientific literature but are unrelated to the papers\u8217' topics (e.g.\u160?\u8220"paper,\u8221" \u8220"study,\u8221" \u8220"aim\u8221").\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Topic models}: are an unsupervised statistical technique to reduce the dimensionality of a corpus of data (typically but not necessarily text) into topics (Blei 2012). Here a topic is a latent variable that ranks words with high probability of appearing together within the same document. Documents in turn can be described by the probability distribution of a particular set of topics. Since they are (posterior) probabilities, the sum of the probability of all words for any given topic should be one, and the sum of the probability of all topics for any given document should also be one. An iterative process or algorithm is what allows the model to learn the ranking of words that best explain topics, and the ranking of topics that best explain documents.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The underlying statistical technique for this machine learning approach is called Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) (Blei et al. 2003). It allocates probabilities to latent variables (topics) based on the distribution of words in text data, assuming a multivariate continuous (Dirichlet) distribution. We compared three LDA algorithms: correlated topic models (CTM), variational expectation maximization (VEM), and Gibbs sampling (Gibbs), by assessing their performance against their log-likelihood estimation, entropy and perplexity (Gr\u252?n and Hornik 2011). Entropy is a measure of order or disorder of a system; in the context of topic models it measures how evenly the topic distribution is spread. Perplexity measures the uncertainty of predicting a single word, so if the model performance were the same as random, perplexity would approximate the vocabulary size (N = 16 728 words). These performance metrics enable us to choose which algorithm best fits our data, what is the optimal number of topics to fit, and how to avoid overfitting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Document analysis}: We complemented our unsupervised approach with document analysis (Bryman 2008) by coding an additional set of categorical variables for a sample of papers (N = 42). Based on the reading of Panarchy, we first developed a series of categorical variables that captured the main components of the scientific framework. The variables were presented and received feedback at the science meeting of the Resilience Alliance in 2019. We used the variables to annotate qualitative aspects such as use of the adaptive cycle, identification of its phases, whether the paper is conceptual, modeling or an empirical study. When empirical, we recorded the temporal and spatial scales of the case study. We also identified what aspects of panarchy were most used in the papers. For example whether there is emphasis on cross-scale interactions, or poverty and rigidity traps. We used text annotations to capture potential criticisms as well as the methods used.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Results\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Panarchy, the book published in 2002, has been cited over 7200 times according to Google Scholar. The scientific paper that introduced the book to the scientific community (Holling 2001) has received, at the time of writing, 1715 citations in the Web of Science, and 1923 in Scopus. Roughly half of the citations have come from environmental (28%) and social sciences (22%). Computer science (2.1%) and arts and humanities (2.6%) have been the least represented.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Comparing algorithm performance revealed that Gibbs sampling was the best fit for the data (Fig ). As a rule of thumb, an ideal method should maximize entropy and the log-likelihood estimation while minimizing perplexity (Gr\u252?n and Hornik 2011). Gibbs sampling maximised both entropy and likelihood with our data when compared to other alternatives. The second best was the variational-expectation maximisation algorithm (VEM) when {\i \u945?} was not set constant. {\i \u945?} is a hyper parameter that weights the evenness of topic distribution. A lower {\i \u945?} than default values indicates that the documents can be described by rather fewer topics, or that its distribution is very uneven. In fact, we observed that increasing the number of topics from 5 to 100 topics did increase entropy at expense of reducing {\i \u945?}, meaning that despite the larger number of topics, the main content of a document is still captured by a few of them. The log-likelihood maximization stopped at around 25-50 topics. Thus, we restricted the rest of our analysis to 25 topics.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A topic is a set of words that are ranked according to a probability that they represent an underlying content of the document (Fig ). For example, the words \u8220"resilience,\u8221" \u8220"vulnerability,\u8221" \u8220"risk\u8221" and \u8220"disaster\u8221" have a high probability to capture the content of topic 25. Papers early in our time series (2001-3) have high content largely dominated by topics 25 on resilience, 24 on the adaptive cycle, and 18 on adaptive governance and management. Towards the end of the time series, topic 3 on urban systems and 9 on local communities and knowledge have spikes up to 9% of the content of each year (2019-2020). For comparison, if all topics were equally represented in the content, they would have 4% in the corpus (grey line in Fig B).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Despite fluctuations, most topics showed a relatively constant level of interest over time (Fig , Fig ). We did not observe strong trends, but some topics have gained a small amount of attention. For example, topic 1 on sustainability, and topic 10 on ecosystem services appeared consistently across time. In contrast, research on business innovation (topic 20), urban infrastructure (topic 3), and archaeology (topic 5) have gained attention in recent years. Topic 8 was an outlier, with a selection of papers ranking high on content related to network infrastructure and performance, possibly from engineering disciplines. It was the only topic with a set of papers that was clearly distinct from the rest of the collection, and showed a decreasing trend over time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The human-coded document analysis revealed that the most common feature of panarchy in the literature was the adaptive cycle (81%, N = 42) followed by cross-scale interactions (Fig ). Poverty and rigidity traps were less studied features in our sample (14% and 19% respectively), even when accounting for slightly different terminology such as \u8220"lock-ins.\u8221" The bulk of the papers analyzed were conceptual papers, many without defined methods or discernible research question. Roughly half of the papers were conceptual or only used panarchy as a metaphor. Over 40% of papers in our sample went a step further and used panarchy as an empirical construct, for example by attempting to identify the phases of the adaptive cycle (61%). Out of the 22 empirical cases, 6 were at the time scale of centuries, 7 on decades, 6 on years, and 1 in weeks. Spatially, 4 were at a city scale, 17 regional, and 1 national. Empirical papers predominantly used qualitative methods (77%, N = 22) and were generally retrospective historical reviews.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Several of the papers reviewed attempted to identify the adaptive cycle either through qualitative or quantitative methods. Identification of adaptive cycles has found applications in a wide range of disciplines and research problems, from delimitation of periods in archaeology and anthropology (Redman and Kinzig 2003), to financial crises in Europe (Castell and Schrenk 2020), to traffic jams in China (Zeng et al. 2020). Some recent empirical tests of the adaptive cycle used innovative types of data and methods. For example, information transfer methods based on entropy have been suggested to approximate relevant components of a system and the empirical proxies of the axes within which the adaptive cycle unfolds: potential, connectedness, and resilience (Castell and Schrenk 2020). Percolation methods combined with big data have been proven useful for testing hypotheses of regime shifts in urban systems (originally proposed in Panarchy (Gunderson and Holling 2002)), and deriving the temporal and spatial scales at which the adaptive cycle emerges (Zeng et al. 2020).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Discussion\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The high level of conceptualization but lack of empirically grounded testing of panarchy theory came across as one of the major limitations. Here we do not refer to positivism as the only plausible way of theory development, but acknowledge that other equally valid approaches exist. From the philosophical point of view of what makes a theory a scientific theory, the plurality of approaches should have mechanisms in place to avoid confirmation bias, allow the emergence of alternative explanations, and identify the circumstances under which a theory may fail (Hansson 2017). Many of the papers we read confirmed but not challenge the expectations that Panarchy put forward, though a few of the most recent works did falsify some of the ideas proposed \u8211-e.g.\u160?the back loop is faster that the front one (Castell and Schrenk 2020). We believe more work is needed to better understand the circumstances where Panarchy works, and when it falls short. In other words, to refine the scientific framework into a scientific theory.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Given the strong predominance of conceptual papers, it is not surprising that one of the key frontiers of research is to empirically ground such conceptualizations in a way that one can test theoretical expectations beyond metaphors. Metaphors have played an important role as boundary objects enabling interdisciplinary dialogues. We observed this on the wide variety of applications that panarchy has inspired, in fields from anthropology to engineering. In the empirical realm, the adaptive cycle is the dimension of panarchy with which researchers engage the most, but it is dominated by qualitative and retrospective studies. That means, we still lack the theory and methods to gather observations and identify a system\u8217's current adaptive cycle phase, or the probability of it transitioning to a new phase.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The criticism of over-conceptualization is not unique to the literature that engage with Panarchy ideas. Here by over-conceptualization we refer to the problem of scientific jargon, where different communities use slightly different wordings to refer to the same phenomenon; reducing the chances that lessons from a disciplines percolates to another. An example from Panarchy is the endorsement of ideas such as creative destruction (from economics) or the theory of intermediate disturbances (from ecology). The latter has been debunked in the ecological literature but might still been used within Panarchy thinking (Fox 2013). A recent review of sustainability science mapped the different schools of thought that the discipline has developed over the last decades (Clark and Harley 2020) and reached a similar conclusion: too many conceptual frameworks have been developed, but there have been too few empirical attempts to test the frameworks against data and falsify hypotheses. The review also emphasizes the problem of measurement and observation (Clark and Harley 2020). In the context of panarchy, recent work has developed an information theory based approach that enables the identification of adaptive cycles (Castell and Schrenk 2020). The authors identify phases of the adaptive cycle in the European financial crises and in grassland ecosystems, but fail to find support for the difference in speed between the forward and backward loops originally proposed in Panarchy.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The panarchy dimensions that received less attention in our qualitative analysis included creative destruction, rigidity and poverty traps. This may be at least partly due to the scope of our data: papers that have cited Panarchy or Holling\u8217's paper (Holling 2001, Gunderson and Holling 2002). Concepts such as creative destruction and poverty traps precede Panarchy and therefore have been theorized and empirically grounded outside the panarchy stream of thinking. For example, the theory of poverty traps dates back to the 1950\u8217's in economics, and has received both theoretical development (Bowles et al. 2006) as well as empirical grounding (Banerjee and Duflo 2012, Banerjee et al. 2015) that has enabled researchers and governments to distinguish what kind of interventions are likely to reduce poverty. Here we encourage similar empirical efforts in formalizing theory and empirical support for the adaptive cycles, their cross-scale interactions (remember and revolt), or how the hierarchical nested nature of complex systems enhance or erode resilience in social-ecological systems.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This paper aimed to study the use of panarchy related concepts and their evolution since the publication of the book. Systematic literature reviews are often restricted to a limited subset of the literature \u8211- based on what is readable on the time frame of a project \u8211- of dozens to maybe hundreds of papers. Qualitative analysis offers rich insights into the papers reviewed but is limited by sample size in its ability to draw general conclusions. In our analysis, the qualitative insights could be biased towards a non-random selection of papers that aligned our research interests or highly cited review papers. Topic modeling enabled us to complement the analysis and include all papers indexed by major scientific databases. It has the advantage of reproducibility and reduces sample bias, but offers limited insights into the dimensions of panarchy used, methods, or criticisms. Here we show that both methods combined are a powerful combination.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Our choice of methods does however have some limitations. We could not directly compare the two methods since they do not share a common categorical axis on which they can be measured back to back. The topics gave us a general but shallow overview, while the document analysis provide deep insights on particular work but limited generalizations. We also, for example, ignored rich areas of social science research (e.g. Anthropology) that is published in books and book chapters, that are not archived by scientific search engines. Additionally, a more inductive approach to the qualitative coding could have gave us different insights on the literature outside the pre-defined categories we initially shared with the Resilience Alliance.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Future studies could benefit from including gray literature such as theses, books, non-governmental organizations reports, government agencies reports, or non-english literature. This would let us see the usage of Panarchy concepts in more applied settings such as management and decision making. Previous studies have also shown that the use of full text instead of abstracts can also offer additional insights on the automated analyses, for example in attributing impacts of ecosystem services from regime shifts in social-ecological systems (Rocha and Wikstr\u246?m 2015). Replication attempts do however face the challenge of accessing full text when many of the papers are behind pay-walls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Conclusion\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 We reviewed the academic literature of the last two decades to trace how Panarchy related concepts have evolved, in what type of problems they have been applied and found useful, and what remains as the key frontiers of research. Despite a growing body of literature, no topic seems to dominate the academic production of scholars using these concepts. The feature most used is the adaptive cycle, and it appears to have been found most useful is in studies with a historical perspective, both in short time studies in natural resource management, urban development, and conservation; as well as archeological and anthropological studies that span centuries to millennia. Hierarchies in scale or maladaptive traps have received comparatively less attention. The frontiers of research point to the problems of measurement and prediction. For example, it is difficult to observe and approximate resilience, connectedness and potential in the present; or to determine the likelihood that a social-ecological system will transition to a different phases of the adaptive cycle, or experience a \u8220"memory\u8221" or \u8220"revolt\u8221" type of cross-scale interaction. While our survey of the literature identified a few promising pathways towards empirically grounding panarchy concepts, we believe the problem of measurement and prediction remain fertile ground for future research efforts.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Acknowledgements\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 JCR acknowledges financial support from Formas research grant (942-2015-731), the Stockholm Resilience Centre, and Stockholm University.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Data availability\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 All data and code to replicate the analysis are available at: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/juanrocha/panarchy"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://github.com/juanrocha/panarchy
}}}
. The code book and database are available in thea public online repository ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.13490919"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.13490919
}}}
).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 References\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Allison, H. E., and R. Hobbs. 2004. Resilience, adaptive capacity, and the \u8220"Lock-in Trap\u8221" of the Western Australian agricultural region 9.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Banerjee, A., and E. Duflo. 2012. Poor Economics. Hachette UK.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Banerjee, A., E. Duflo, N. Goldberg, D. Karlan, R. Osei, W. Parient\u233?, J. Shapiro, B. Thuysbaert, and C. Udry. 2015. A multifaceted program causes lasting progress for the very poor: Evidence from six countries. Science 348:1260799\u8211-1260799.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Blei, D. M. 2012. Probabilistic topic models. Commun ACM 55:77\u8211-84.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Blei, D. M., A. Y. Ng, and M. I. Jordan. 2003. Latent dirichlet allocation. J. Mach. Learn. Res. 3:993\u8211-1022.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Bowles, S., S. N. Durlauf, and K. Hoff. 2006. Poverty Traps. Princeton University Press.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Bryman, A. 2008. Social Research Methods. 3 Ed. Oxford University Press.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Castell, W. zu, and H. Schrenk. 2020. Computing the adaptive cycle. Scientific Reports 10:1.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Clark, W. C., and A. G. Harley. 2020. Sustainability Science: Toward a Synthesis. Annual Review of Environment and Resources 45:annurev-environ-012420-043621.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Folke, C. 2016. Resilience (Republished). Ecology and Society 21:art44.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Fox, J. W. 2013. The intermediate disturbance hypothesis should be abandoned. Trends Ecol Evol 28:86\u8211-92.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Griffiths, T. L., and M. Steyvers. 2004. Finding scientific topics. P Natl Acad Sci Usa 101 (suppl 1):5228\u8211-5235.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Gr\u252?n, B., and K. Hornik. 2011. topicmodels: An R package for fitting topic models. J Stat Softw 40:1\u8211-30.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Gunderson, L. H., and C. S. Holling. 2002. Panarchy. Island Press.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Hansson, S. 2017. Science and Pseudo-Science. {\i in} E. Zalta, editor. The stanfod encyclopedia of philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Holling, C. 1986. The resilience of terrestrial ecosystems: local surprise and global change. Sustainable development of the biosphere. Cambridge.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Holling, C. S. 2001. Understanding the Complexity of Economic, Ecological, and Social Systems. Ecosystems 4:390\u8211-405.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Holling, C. S., L. Gunderson, and G. Peterson. 2002. Sustainability and panarchies. Panarchy. Island Press.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Holling, C. S., and G. Meffe. 1996. Command and control and the pathology of natural resource management 10:328\u8211-337.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maru, Y. T., C. S. Fletcher, and V. Chewings. 2012. A Synthesis of Current Approaches to Traps Is Useful But Needs Rethinking for Indigenous Disadvantage and Poverty Research 17:7.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Parker, J. N., and E. J. Hackett. 2012. Hot Spots and Hot Moments in Scientific Collaborations and Social Movements. American Sociological Review 77:21\u8211-44.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Redman, C. L., and A. P. Kinzig. 2003. Resilience of Past Landscapes: Resilience Theory, Society, and the Longue Dur\u233?e. Conservation Ecology 7:art14.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rocha, J. C., and R. Wikstr\u246?m. 2015. Detecting potential impacts on ecosystem services related to ecological regime shifts  a matter of wording. {\i in} G. D. Peterson and R. O. Biggs, editors. Regime shifts in the anthropocene. Stockholm Resilience Centre, Stockholm University, Stockholm.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Zeng, G., J. Gao, L. Shekhtman, S. Guo, W. Lv, J. Wu, H. Liu, O. Levy, D. Li, Z. Gao, H. E. Stanley, and S. Havlin. 2020. Multiple metastable network states in urban traffic 117:17528\u8211-17534.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Supplementary Material\par}
}
